This is Jockel podcast number 253 with Dave Burke and me, Jockel willing.
Good evening Dave.
Good evening.
So last couple of podcasts, 251 with Dave Babin, 252, also Dave Burke.
We're continuing to make our way through this book right here.
Guidelines for the leader and commander by General Bruce Clark.
Life and I made it up to page 13. Dave and I, last time we made it up to page 28, it's
117 page book.
It's just almost impossible not to find lessons and save yourself.
I don't need to worry about that section right there.
So to take these experiences from this leader and commander and trying to climb.
That this this book was the guide book for my biggest mentor, Colonel David Hackworth,
author about face and there's so many threads.
I just noticed that thread today or the on the last podcast, the thread between General Clark
and making the men stand to and then then being okay with it once they almost got overrun
and hackworth.
I just, there the threads just connected on that last podcast.
So the threads keep getting connected.
If you want to see the threads of the way hackworth learned to lead, which in turn taught
me how to lead, they all tie right back to General Clark.
So that's what we're doing.
We're tracking these lessons to their root cause, to their root to the source and learning
as we do it.
Part three of Guidelines for the leader and commander by General Bruce Clark.
First section we get into today.
We're on chapter five, the conduct of inspections.
And I'll tell you this as I was as I was parsing this book, the first time I prep for it,
I thought, life and I were going to get through half of it and I thought, life and I
will do back to back podcasts.
We'll do half in one podcast.
So we'd cover 60 or so pages and then we do half, we just do come do them back to back.
We made it through 13 pages.
So now as I'm reading and I'm looking for like the breaking points or where I can go,
okay, this is a good section.
This section today, the end of this section we're to cover today is it's it's it's freaking
epic.
I don't know, though that we're around very often.
So we'll get there.
But this chapter five starts off with the conduct of inspections.
And the first question is why inspect and then it says there is a saying.
An organization does well only those things, the boss checks.
This true is originated in so far as I am concerned from a speech that I heard made by
a vice president of one of our largest corporations.
This is not a new thought to anyone who has military experience because I've often heard
it expressed as anything that has not been inspected has been neglected.
I changed the way I said that word to neglected.
But it made it sound a lot better.
So anything that has not been inspected has been neglected.
If these sayings are true and I think they are, it follows that anyone who has important
position must be able to check in on or inspect the operations which he's responsible.
Life when life saw this, I think I sent a picture of this to life because this is, you
know, a line that I hear, life say a lot.
It's a line that he heard me say a lot and we always attribute it to hack worth.
We always attribute it to hack worth.
And guess what, it didn't come from hack worth.
So how to inspect or turn on how to inspect civilians often think of a non-commissioned
officer and officer as a demon inspector, a demon inspector, a good inspector is certainly not
a demon, but good inspectors are not plentiful in the army or out of it.
However, to be a successful non-commissioned officer or a successful officer, one should
be a competent inspector.
This quality cannot be attained without a considerable amount of study, planning and
practice.
Now, this is interesting because I wasn't sure how much of this section to cover because
inspections are not something that I utilized to any great extent as a leader.
And I was a leader.
I didn't inspections was not one of my big tools.
And so I thought, well, you know, I'm well talk about it.
You know, you certainly have to inspect things and I get that and that's why I would say
that.
Hey, an organization does well and things to the boss checks.
I've said that many times and I believe it.
But also, I believe that if I have to inspect you, that means I'm doing something wrong
somewhere else.
And like if I've got it, if my gig is I've got to inspect you, that means I'm making
some other kind of mistakes somewhere because should I have to inspect that your weapon is
ready?
Should I have to inspect that you've prepared for an operation?
Should I have to inspect that you've done the work that you're supposed to?
I shouldn't have to inspect if I've led correctly, then you know why you're doing what
you're doing.
And therefore, you don't really need to get inspected because you understand the why and
you make things happen.
So I've always had that attitude and it's been very successful for me.
So I wasn't sure how much I was going to get into this whole inspection mode because
what I don't want to do is create a bunch of leaders that are going out there becoming
these inspection happy, you know, dig down hell, coming in and inspect you.
You know what's funny with my kids?
If you know my kids, whenever my wife's not around, my kids are, they have to do everything,
right?
And so I'll say, are you, you know, what time will you be ready for inspection?
Or are they just get so they know what that means?
I'm going to inspect, I'm going to inspect and they're better be squared away.
So I didn't want to create, I don't want to pass on this idea that, hey, you guys got
to be inspection, inspection freak.
You know, I never want people to think that the military is what the military is portrayed
in boot camp, which is you're getting inspected all the time.
So that being said, as I read through this, I thought my better cover this because, well,
you'll see.
So here we go, back to the book.
It is very seldom that I visit a unit in installation or headquarters that I do not see
things which are apparently not correct and which need pointing out, which only need
pointing out to get them promptly corrected.
So it's very seldom that you go somewhere and you see something to go, hey, man, why
isn't that right?
And all you have to do is tell them that it's not right and they fix it.
I notice a similar situation in reading the reports of the Inspector General inspections.
I often wonder why the responsible person on the spot has not noticed them and corrected
them.
Like, you're there.
Why don't you notice that this shortfall exists?
Here's one reason.
It may be because he has lived so close to them that his ability to notice them has become
fatigued.
So what does that mean?
You're not detached.
You're not detached, so you don't see these mistakes.
What I am inclined to think that it is because, so that's a possibility, but I am inclined
to think that is because he has not conducted his inspections in a systematic and effective
way.
So even when you're not detached, even when you're totally engaged, if you inspect correctly,
you should still be able to pick up on things that you would otherwise miss.
Too often officers and senior uncommissioned, noncommissioned officers have a general
looksy rather than an inspection.
They go through their areas of responsibility without noticing things to correct and what
is more without noticing good things for which someone should be complimented.
That's one of the reasons why I had to cover this.
Because an inspection isn't about finding what I can nitpick about you.
It's actually about what I can find to compliment you on.
Totally different attitude.
My purpose for inspecting you is so I can find things that you're doing awesome at
and compliment you for.
To become a good inspector requires, as I have said before, study planning and practice.
It requires study to be sure that he knows what is correct and what is not correct in
the field of his responsibility.
It requires planning to prepare a schedule of inspections in such a way that over a period
of time he has given the necessary attention to all aspects of his field of responsibility.
And then it requires practice in order to notice promptly whether the important things
are correct or incorrect.
Notice he said important things.
Important things and you can absolutely get bogged down in things that are not important.
In fact, the military, if you're not careful, you will start to focus on things that are
not important.
On the last podcast you were talking about the fact that when you were a squadron commander,
your attitude was, we are inspection ready at all times.
Does that mean that we scrub the grout on the backside of the whatever bathroom in the
third floor?
No, because does that really matter?
Is that an important thing?
No, is it clean?
Yes, it's clean.
Absolutely, it's clean.
It's fully functional.
It's totally ready.
But we're not wasting time on it because it's not really that important.
What is important?
The mechanics of the freaking aircraft.
The cleanliness of the area where we're actually doing work that keeps these machines
up and running.
If I had my guy scrubbed the grout of the bathrooms prior to someone coming to visit,
I'm telling them that's what I care about.
And that's not what I want them to care about.
In the study phase, most people find that a checklist is necessary.
Think about that.
A checklist is necessary.
This ensures that you can tell.
I've been picking this up as a reading this.
General Clark is kind of an anal root that I've do for sure.
He's about checklists.
He's about inspections.
He's got that nature to him.
So we need to keep that in mind.
We need to keep in mind that why is he, why is this guy with all this experience?
Why is he using a checklist?
Why is that?
Oh, because it works.
I used to take every single piece of gear that I would take on trips and I would have
a little checkbox next to it to make sure I had what I need to have.
Check this.
Because this ensures that important things are not overlooked and assist the inspector
until he has become so proficient through practice that he carries a mental checklist in his
head.
There are inherent evils in the use of a checklist unless this is made out well.
It does focus great attention to the items listed which may cause other important things,
which may have been left off the checklist to be overlooked.
It must be remembered that two inspect is to emphasize which is what you just said.
To inspect is to emphasize if you are cleaning the grout on the third floor bathroom,
that's what you're emphasizing as important.
And honestly, do I want one minute of time when I'm running an F-35 squadron that has
multi-million dollar aircraft that are life-saving machines?
I want anyone scrubbing on the third floor in the third floor bathroom that never gets used
and never gets seen.
No.
In the planning phase, one should make a list of all items or phases of his responsibility
on which he wants to check in most jobs.
This list will probably have 30 or 40 items on it.
It is manifestly impossible in one trip through a platoon, company battalion battle group
or similar area to check adequately all 40 items.
Therefore he should keep this list and select from it three or four items each week or
other interval.
When he inspects he should do a very thorough job on these selected items.
Of course, to do a thorough job, he must have studied up on each item selected beforehand,
so that he knows what is right and what is wrong and what to look for.
By selecting a new group of three or four items each week, he will over a period of
time have covered all of them and by the time he comes to the end of the list, he will
have really checked all the aspects of his responsibility and will become a master of his
job, what is more at that time if he has been effective as an inspector, his responsibility
will be carried out in a superior manner.
Great.
You know what else is awesome about that?
What's cooler?
What's better?
What to your last podcast about being about humanizing yourself to your troops?
What does a better job of humanizing?
Telling you, hey, once every three months I'm going to come and inspect 40 items and it's
going to take eight hours and you're going to be standing at a period rest of the whole
time or I'm going to come down once a week.
I'm going to check two or three things, get to know you, talk to you, game, it's obvious.
Yeah.
And maybe even tell you, hey, you're doing an awesome job down here.
This is good to go.
Man, the difference.
Okay.
Let me ask you this.
Let's say I'm a nitpicker.
Let's say I roll down to your flight light.
And I see that there's whatever some dust on one of these pieces of tools and I walk
over with my white glove and I inspect it and I hold it up to you and I go, this is junk.
You're a slob.
Everything else is quite a bit.
I year a slob.
Okay.
First of all, what do I care about?
I've showed you that I care about dust and tools.
And overall, are you inspired to do a good job for me?
No.
What if I come down and I look at your toolbox and I go, man, I can see that the way
you got your tools labeled that you are a professional.
That is legit.
You know what?
Every time I start up one of these aircraft, I'm going to feel good in my heart
that you're down here, maintaining these aircraft.
Thank you.
What is that guy doing?
That guy's polishing these tools, man.
He's polishing these tools.
So do you want to rule out a fear?
Do you want to rule out of admiration?
Is that hard?
If you take one step back and think of the outcome you're trying to create, the real outcome
that you're trying to create.
And as a squadron commander, you just described it.
I want 150 maintainers who are who their entire commitment to life is to make sure these
airplanes are safe to operate.
That's what I want.
A commitment to making sure that we have these machines that are safe.
If I just think about that, it's actually not hard to go, well, which of these two ways
is going to get my guy?
I'm a marine to think the way that I want him to think.
It's really not that hard.
You just have to reverse positions to go, how would I feel about the guy coming down
doing this to make?
Oh, well, this makes sense.
That doesn't make sense.
Just do the one that makes sense.
And you actually will get the outcome that you want.
When you're saying that, I was thinking, if you can get a little connection of, hey, hey,
I noticed these tools over here are kind of dusty.
Are these kind of a weight?
Do you not use these?
Are these not necessary?
Is this a bunch of stuff that you've got to manage?
It's not important because these things, obviously, are getting used like crazy.
Hey, is there a way to kind of relieve you of something?
Just some connection have to go.
Actually, sir, those things are terrible.
We don't use them because they don't work.
They just hit over there and collect dust.
It's just an example.
But if you can make the connection between what they're doing to get the outcome that you
want, it's actually not that hard to do.
Man.
All right.
Back to the book.
Whether he announces beforehand the items that he is going to check each, you know, that
hole for that hole conversation we just had, that's like something that we need to continue
to talk about.
I see this all the time is like, it's really obvious with ego, right?
When you're in it, you don't notice how stupid you look.
And when you step outside and you see someone else behaving that way, you go, oh, this
person's in any it.
There he goes involved.
But when it's you, but no, it's, it's me.
It's different.
No one will notice.
I want that attention.
I want that he, you didn't recognize me.
I want, you know what, I want my black belt.
How's that work?
Yeah, not good.
Back to the book.
Sorry.
Whether he announces beforehand the items that he is going to check each time as a matter
of individual choice.
Some officers, publishers, publishers, publishers to assist in training their subordinates.
Good results have been obtained that way.
One basic rule, however, is that having once announced an inspection, he owes it to the
people underneath him to make it fair and thorough.
He also owes it to the people, inspect the privilege of being commended for the good things
found as well as criticism for the things which are not up to standard.
That whole idea, if you just flip the, I'm inspecting you so I can see what you're doing
awesome, inspect all the time.
Totally.
I have never known a good inspector who did not acquire a highly developed curiosity
and the ability to notice details.
This can come to anyone with practice.
On one occasion, I visited country where units of the Army are stationed.
I was met at the airfield by a field grade officer of the local headquarters.
During the ride, during the ride from the airfield unit, I noticed that the civilian
passenger cars we met had the drivers on the left side, but the large trucks had the
drivers on the right side.
This seemed odd to me, so I inquired of my escort why this should be so.
He remarked that although having been in the country for over a year, he had not noticed
that.
I would surprise that he would not develop into your good inspector.
If you, as either commander or a staff member follow these hints and rules, you will not
be known as a demon inspector, but as a competent and effective manager.
And then he says it one more time in big bold print and organization does well only those
things the boss checks.
If you're in a leadership role and you're inspecting your people, or if you want to take
it to set further, if someone else is coming in, like the IG is this in the military,
the IG is this other group, this inspector general group is another team that actually
comes into inspect you.
So whether it's you or somebody else, if I'm a leader and I'm inspecting my people,
I'm actually just inspecting myself.
And it's everything I see is a pure reflection of me.
So the idea that I be down there, design to criticize them for not doing the things I need
them to do.
If you just have the mindset in your brain, my inspection of my people is actually an evaluation
of my own performance.
It can completely change the way you see what it is that you're looking at.
The inspection is you.
And that was part of the reason as a commander and a squadron when I said, listen, Marines,
if we have we have visitors, you will not allocate additional time to cleaning.
I said that that was like a standing rule in my squadron.
If people are coming in to inspect it and inspect our facility, you will not allocate additional
time to clean.
I want it to be as clean as it needs to be.
Do what you would normally do.
And if they come in and this place is a dump, then I clearly have not allocated the time,
not done the things I need to do.
But if they come in and go, hey, this place is good to go.
That's a reflection of me as a leader, not of my man or my Marines.
It's me who's being inspected.
And just that view of what is your actually evaluating?
Yeah, well, check this out.
If I come down to inspect Dave and instead of me blaming you for whatever shortfalls you
have, I say, hey, Dave, I noticed that your tools are not in the proper place.
And when they're not in the proper place, they could get caught of the flight line, they
could ruin an engine, someone could hurt or killed.
I don't think I've done a good job of explaining to you why this is important.
That's a soundporter.
So I've failed as a leader.
The fact that you're not 100% square away is my fault.
That's why.
That's why I'm scared of this whole idea a little bit.
That's why it scares me.
Even when I say this, an organization does well only those things the boss checks.
I can tell you that my seal platoon, my seal task unit, my echelon front, does all kinds
of things exceptionally well that I don't check.
I know that.
So that's why I'm a little nervous about trying to make people into hyper inspectors.
I look at inspection kind of the same way as I look at accountability because they are
very similar.
And I've always said, okay, to me, accountability is a crutch.
Look, it's a tool.
I'm not saying crutches are bad.
When you have a broken leg, you got to get a crutch so you can get around.
Inspections to me are very similar to, in fact, they are a form of accountability.
But if that's my primary tool for leadership is just to hold everyone accountable and go
inspect them all the time, that's not a good functioning tool.
It's not the right way to use that tool.
If I've got 300 weapons inside task unit bruiser and the only way I can make sure that
their clean is by inspecting them twice a week, that's an embarrassment to me actually.
That's an embarrassment to me.
It's a bearer's commitment to the platoon commanders, it's embarrassment to the platoon
chiefs and it's a bearer's to everyone in the platoon task unit because we all know why it's
important to keep our weapon squared away.
And if we're not in the only way I can get them to do that as to inspect them, it's wrong.
They should know the culture that we have, they should understand why it's important
and therefore I shouldn't have to inspect the damn thing.
Now all that being said, you certainly do, I certainly did inspect the weapons and task
in a bruiser.
I didn't do it a lot.
I did it a couple of times in the beginning just to make sure, hey, everyone gets it,
everyone knows.
But after three inspections in the first three months, you think I went down there to make
sure, I'm just going to make sure, by the way, what kind of trust is that?
What kind of, am I telling my platoon that I trust them when I, one of the platoons that
I, am I telling, latef1 that I trust them and I say, hey, latef1, I want to go inspect
the weapons today.
He should be able to look at me, don't waste your time boss.
We're good.
And you know what I'd say?
Cool.
Is there a chance?
Latef, latef will talk about this.
He gave a little too much slack one time and didn't have, you know, one was guys and
do a serialized inventory piece of gear went missing.
And it's like, he was like, yep, that's all me.
Latef said that's all me.
I obviously, little two hands off, little two decentralized.
So what does that mean?
I think that's why latef loves that term, loves that phrase so much because he knows
he had that bite him in the ass.
He had to start to up the level of inspections.
So it is a tool.
It is a tool.
Don't overuse it.
Use it.
Yes.
Don't overuse it.
It's a lack of trust.
Be careful.
Yeah, I'm actually over here kind of rack in my brain.
I'm thinking about my time in command.
And I was trying to come up with a memory of inspecting something.
And I couldn't think of like a formal inspection that I did.
And at the same time, I had a very strong sense in real time of whether my guys are working
on the things I wanted them to work on.
Now, I did have a luxury.
And the answer I came to my head is when I went flying, you're talking about this idea
of inspection.
When you go before you get into an airplane, you do what's called a pre flight.
Which is an inspection.
Because I started the nose of the airplane.
I go all the way around.
I check a bunch of things before I get into the airplane.
Now, if I overshot the mark, I could walk up to the plane captain.
We called it the Marine and charge of that plane.
And I could say, is everything good to go?
And you could say, yes.
And the truth is, is that I actually trusted him.
I could climb up that letter and go fly and come back.
But if every single time I came out to the jet, I just climbed up and flew that airplane,
he over time, he'd realize, hey, this guy's not really paying attention.
And it's not that he, that this guy, Colonel Burke, doesn't care.
Or doesn't trust me.
He doesn't care as much.
It's not that important.
And I don't want him to think that.
And at the same time, am I going to spend an hour walking around this airplane going,
hey, devil dog, come down here.
I see this thing looking for things that are important, general integrity, and one
set of blue moon are going, hey, can you come down here for a sec?
Hey, this thing down here on this panel isn't this, I think it's supposed to be down
in this switch.
I think I can get this reader and if I would just show him, hey, these things are important
to me, what you're doing is important.
And I'm not looking to find ways to criticize you.
So I actually did inspections all the time, but I really couldn't think of a time that
in my years in command where I did an inspection, this is an inspection, be prepared for that
inspection.
And at the same time, everything I did as a leader was an inspection because everything
I paid attention to was my signal to them of these things that matter.
I had a safety incident when I was running training.
There was a safety incident.
And my boss, I could see you wanted to, what you wanted to bring a little bit of the
thunder, right?
And so unannounced inspection of my range, safety officer qualification letters.
So I'm working at a training command where I've got whatever.
I got 100 instructors, seal instructors, they're all range safety officers, all 100%.
And so I've already, you know, paperwork is not my best quality.
And the inspector shows up.
And you know, it was like, I remember this, it was a fleet, like a fleet.
I want to say it was a fleet, lieutenant, and chief.
So they didn't send seals over because seals would have been like a hedgehog of what
we're going to be over there in an hour.
You might want to, you know, little heads up.
They would have brod me out, right?
No bro.
These guys show up.
And, you know, I get to add man, hey, hey, sir, we have an inspection.
And I'm like an inspection.
Okay.
What do we get in perspective?
So in comes this chief in the lieutenant.
We need to check your RSO, your range safety officer qualifications for all your instructors.
And I'm thinking, okay, in my mind, I'm like, whatever, I don't even know where these
are.
Right?
I'm completely, I'm just, if I was, I want to just
held out my, you know, get put my hands out to get cuffed, you know, like arrest me now.
And sure enough, my admin department says, oh, you want to see the, you want to see the
all the RSO qualifications.
I make sure that every single person, every single hundred people here that all have
that all by the way, rotate in at different times, they're all rotate now.
There's not like any, it's not like a one unified group of people that's all getting
qualified at the same time.
No, these are random guys that are coming and going at different times.
Oh, you want to see if all those hundred people are completely up to date and qualified
for their range safety officer paperwork?
Yeah, that's what we want to see.
Okay, go, come over here.
My admin team pulls them out and just starts.
Yeah, oh, yeah, what, oh, you want to look at, you want to look at all hundred, everything
was one, a hundred percent square to wait.
100 percent square to wait.
I had nothing to do with it.
Obviously, the guy that was, but had to me before me, had the implemented a system or
someone at some point in implementing a system and there it was, a hundred percent square
to wait.
So that kind of thing, I can take no credit for that, but guess what?
As I, that's a situation where guess what I should have done when I showed up at that
command?
I should have had a good list and you know what's in this book, there's a thing in this
book that talks about how you turn over with someone think, what do you get ready?
That's something when I showed up at the command, I should have said, okay, think about
what this command does.
Oh, we are range safety officers.
That's one of our primary duties.
I should probably make sure that we are up to speed from an administrative perspective,
which is again, what we already talked about on the last podcast, from an administrative
perspective.
Because guess what, if my boss finds out that none of my guys are quality, the quality
is all over the place, I should not, I'm not qualified to be in that job.
That's bad.
My guys, there's a reason for those range safety qualifications.
I should have had that I should have inspected it.
So there's an example of, look, I'm glad I got away with it.
You know, I'm glad that somebody was more square, I'm glad that my own administrative department
was more square than I was, but I don't like that feeling.
So something like that, absolutely, I should have, I should have at some point said, hey,
I'm going to take a look at our administrative records.
That way, I feel comfortable and confident and also people realize that it is important.
Because I didn't place it by, by never inspecting it, two things happened.
One, no one thought it was important.
And I'm just by the grace of God and good square to wait discipline that they did it.
And number two, they never got me credit for doing that.
I never got to go to my admin department and said, hey, I want to look at the records
and then say, oh, here you go, boss, and me say great job.
So even though I'm kind of downplaying the use of inspections, when you look at it as
a positive tool, it's something that I should have used more.
I had such a negative attitude towards inspections.
I should have had a more positive attitude towards it and done them more often.
So I think that is, that is when I'm walking away, my lesson learned is inspections.
I think of them as a tool for accountability.
I should think of them as inspections are a tool for complimentary activity with your
troops, for confirming that the right things are being focused on.
Because guess what, you know, of the admin department, you know how
many RSOs, you know, me rain safety officers, they were in the admin department.
Take a guess.
Admin guys are RSOs?
Yes, none.
Zero.
Exactly.
They had no reason to be concerned about that.
No, I've never made it important.
I never made it important.
Thankfully, they were great square to wait.
Yeah.
You know, sailors that got it done.
Chapter six, a successful manager.
Advice from a civilian manager.
When I was, and you know what, this is something that I, I've talked about before, which
is in the 90s.
And I don't know if you remember this.
Maybe you saw it, maybe you didn't.
In the 90s, there would be a lot of, hey, what can the military learn from, from civilian
companies?
There's a lot of like, hey, we want to send you out to IBM or whoever to see how they
operate.
And yet a lot of those lessons that the civilian businesses, the lot of the things that
they did to operate was based on military opportunities, a bunch of guys that got out of World
War 2 and said, hey, this is what we should do.
Right?
That the greatest generation came back and said, I know how to run shit.
Watch this.
Yeah.
So it goes both ways.
And, and it's something, but then sometimes it's like, oh, the military.
So the civilians after World War II said, oh, we'll take all these practices from
the military.
And then here we were, this book came out 1963.
Hey, let's make sure that we're learning from the corporate as well.
So advice from a civilian manager, when I was taking my graduate work in civil engineering
at Cornell University, the head of a very prominent and successful, general contracting
firm spoke to us on what made a contractor successful or really what kept him from going
broke.
He said that if you went into a new area and wanted to talk about probably the most astute
individual, there you should seek out a general contractor who has been in business successfully
for at least 10 years.
If you analyze his methods of operations, this is what you had find undoubtedly.
Okay.
So here's how this, here's how a civilian contractor runs a business.
He collected and kept to up to date on detailed costs.
He had his staff available to him as needed, expert advice in the field of engineering
finance purchasing taxation, law, etc., and he used them.
So on his staff, he had experts and we needed him and he talked to him.
He had competent, formant, frontline leaders.
He took the time to orient and train them.
His relations with his workforce were good so that his turnover was small and provided
key personnel with steady work.
He had good labor relations.
He obtained good equipment and kept it operating through positive program of inspection,
maintenance and operator training.
He understood the problems created by special conditions such as storms, weather, temperature,
seasons, flood, climate and estimated and planned around them.
He had a good supervision and inspection setup to ensure quality, prevent delays and to
overcome quickly unforeseen obstacles and ensure acceptance without costly adjustment or
doing over.
His plans always reflected much thought in economical methods of construction and then this
last section says, but most of all, he was an expert on timing in that he programs, in
that he programed the method, the flow of the following to the job at proper times and
proper amounts with proper specifications and proper quality in order that none was
overlooked, work was not delayed and none arrived too early and too much or too little.
And then he goes through a big list, cost data, plans, decisions lay out of the area,
flow charts, supervision setup, inspection.
He goes on financing, workforce, field offices, field storage, power and light requirements.
He goes through all this stuff and what he's basically saying is he make a list, make a list
of what's important.
And then he takes all that and says applicability to military situation.
I'm sure you notice the great similarity between the management qualities required in a general
contractor and those required in the commander of a military operation.
Steps in command or in managing a job.
One, based on the mission or orders, the commander determines, isolates and defines the
limits of the problem.
And every once in a while, I get something where I go, oh, and this is one of those moments.
Number two, the commander turns the problem into an operation by issuing a clear and adequate
directive for the conducting of it and what I really like about that is, and you know we
hear it, define what the problem is, define what the problem is.
If you don't know what the problem is, how are you doing anything else?
And if you think about any mission that we ever did in the military, there's a problem
that we're trying to solve.
Any mission that we ever did, there's a problem.
Hey, there's a bad guy.
He's killing Americans.
That's the problem.
We want to get rid of them.
Okay, how are we going to solve that problem?
Here's your operation.
If the help of the executive, the commander monitors and guides the staff, while it prepares,
while it prepares, underlined by me.
Not he prepares, it prepares for issue by him or the staff, coordinate instructions, plans
and orders for implementing the directive.
The commander follows up to see the plans, instructions, and orders are fully understood,
and carried out, making the necessary modifications and additions as the operation progresses
to accomplishment.
There you go.
So I'm over here, kind of, hearing all this for the first time, and I've actually been struggling
with these last two sections in my brain.
I'm struggling because I'm thinking about how I led in the Marine Corps, and I'm like,
I didn't do a lot of these things until you kind of explain that last part.
I was even thinking about your explanation of the previous chapter of the inspection of your
range safety program, and you like, hey, I kind of sure to made this a priority, and I'm like,
man, I'm not here to say, I want to be really careful, like you said, like, what he's saying
is right, but I honestly don't think I ever inspected anything.
I really don't think I did that.
And what I keep coming back to is what he just described in my brain.
I just keep going to this connection of decentralized command and culture.
I know I created a culture by which everybody on my team understood that what they did was
critical.
And I also knew my people well enough to know what they did.
And so I had an admin shop too.
I had a same group of admin Marines, which their job was admin Marines.
I actually didn't know the 39 things on the admin checklist sets of requirements.
You know who did?
My admin chief did.
And I spent enough time with him to make him know that those things were critical, even
though I didn't know any of them individually the way he did.
And I'm thinking, like, how many times did somebody come in and check out my admin shop?
And I was like, how do we do?
It's like, sure, what do you mean?
How do we crush it?
We're totally good to go.
We had no hits, no deviations or whatever.
It wasn't because I ever inspected his shop.
And I'm running through this thing like, man, I didn't have a checklist for inspection
of my squadron.
But my squadron was kind of awesome because the people all knew, hey, hey, Marines, we own
these things.
Nobody else in the squadron does these things but us.
And these things have to be squared away because at some point somebody's going to come
in.
So I'm just going to assess somebody's going to measure or evaluate and we owe this to the
squadron because if we can't do this, it's going to affect this and we're not going to
fire points.
And the skipper needs us to fire points.
And I'm trying to think of a way to say it without disagreeing with what he's saying
until he got to the end, which was, hey, here's my job as a leader.
We have a problem.
We need to solve this problem.
You know who's going to solve this problem?
You, I don't know how to, I have no idea to fix that.
And then when you're done, you're going to come to me and I'm going to go, okay, that
makes sense.
Here's what we're going to do to make sure this happens.
And so that thing is actually pulled the threat of the previous two chapters together.
I'm over and going, I think I might have sucked as a leader because I'm going
to do anything.
I didn't do any of those things he had describing until he pulled it together, which was
they are the ones that are solving all those problems.
So it's kind of a relief.
And I'm not here to say, I'm not here to say, do what I did.
I'm just kind of almost embarrassed like, yeah, I didn't do any inspections as a squadron
commander at a time where there was more scrutiny on my command than probably any squadron
in the, possibly the military because of how high profile it was.
And I'm thinking, should I've been running around inspecting all my people?
Well, I'll answer for that for you in my opinion, because it sounds like you and I did the
exact same freaking thick, right?
You and I did the exact same freaking thing.
Now, the reason that I regret that I never inspected my admin departments tracking of
RS or the reason I regret that there's two reasons.
Number one, when it came, when that inspection came on announced inspection, I was like,
fingers are crossed, I have no idea.
And if I was a Batman, I wouldn't have bet on the wind.
I wouldn't have bet on the, I wouldn't have bet on zero.
Yeah, no deviation.
Zero deviations, which is what we got.
So I'm, I don't like that.
But even more important than that is I had people that worked for me that did an exceptional
job, an exceptional job.
I never gave them, I mean, look, after the after we got randomly, if they were, if
that inspection never would have happened, I never would have given them any credit, right?
I never, so I'm, I, I, I would have gone back in time if I could do it again.
You know what I do?
As I go, hey, guys, I'm going to come and check out some of the stuff in admin today.
Yeah.
And I want to say, show me these RS, show me these, give me, hey, Smith Jones and white.
Let me there, RSO records right now.
They pull them out and I go, man, you guys are on top of things.
Thank you.
And now I'm just that much better.
So that's why I feel like inspections is a tool, not so much a tool to make sure that
people are doing, it's a, it's a, it's a connection.
Yes.
It's an opportunity to compliment people.
It's an opportunity for, hey, man, if I never inspect those things, how important is
it to me?
Not not, it's not very important, obviously.
Yeah.
Guess what, when the, when my commanding officer comes over to inspect, guess how important
it's number one thing on my free list.
And I had, I had, I only, here's the next part.
Pup, pup.
What trumps above inspections in the hierarchy of leadership is obviously culture.
So you, at your squadron and, and I'll give you some credit, but I will give free
can credit to the good old United States Marine Corps, which is you never set a word, but
those Marines knew this is my job.
I will be freaking ready.
This is what I do.
So there's a culture inside the Marine Corps, which you enhanced inside your squadron
that everybody knew this is what we do.
That's what we're looking for.
That's what we're trying to do.
Yeah.
And hopefully we don't have to inspect as a negative, hopefully we inspect
it in a positive way.
Yeah.
And I think that's the genius of what he's saying as I'm thinking about it is that,
if you hear the word inspection, 99 people out of 100, that's a negative word.
That's a bad word.
The inspection is not something you want.
We don't, I don't want to be inspected.
There's a negative connotation.
And the negative connotation is true.
If the things your people are doing wrong is a reflection of them and the things your
people doing right is a reflection of you.
And he's saying the exact opposite.
The things your people are doing right is a reflection of them and you should tell them
they're doing awesome.
And the things they're doing wrong is a reflection of you.
Yeah.
And that alone just reversing what it actually means to inspect and the conclusion of that.
And that I think has been the part I've been wrestling with this whole time listening to it.
And when what he's saying is exactly opposite of the standard connotation of inspection.
So anyway, that's pretty cool.
The sections should be positive, not negative.
Chapter seven, leadership, commander ship, general ship.
And then in quotes, follow a ship.
I can assure you that it's, and so this is addressed to students of the command and general
staff college, Fort Levenworth, Kansas, 1962 to 1963 course.
He printed with permission from Armour Magazine.
Why don't I subscribe?
Why don't I have a subscription to Armour Magazine?
Here we go.
I can assure you that it's a great privilege for me to return to the command and general
staff college even though this is the first time I have been permitted to be on this platform
in civilian clothes.
I've been here over a long period of time from time to time.
I entered here as a student 24 years ago.
I've taken great interest in the command and general staff college because I was able to work
in the field of Army education on several occasions.
I don't know that there's any institution in America that is so favorably known worldwide
in military circles as your college.
And while I can't think of many things that I contributed to the college, I did contribute
one thing that I think was important.
You can see he's got a little, little humility.
I can't think of anything I've done, but it's one thing that I think was important.
I was responsible for changing the name of it from the command and general staff school
to the command and general staff college.
You might think that to be a play in the semantics, but it isn't.
It's important because after all, you gentlemen here are getting the equivalent of your
master's degree in your profession.
I wanted to just talk to you with you this morning.
I didn't come here to deliver a lecture.
I came to talk to you about certain aspects of the job that you're learning to do.
After all, this is the command and general staff college and that name was not arrived
without some thought.
And of course, it sets forth your mission for being here.
I was a troop commander for 13 straight years before I retired.
And that encompasses the career of a great many people, a great many of you people.
So that I didn't come here today to play over again the record that I think a lot of you
have heard me play many times.
You have heard a very good course at the college and leadership.
And I assure you that I'll not repeat that or go into the attributes that are required
in the field of leadership.
I think they are very well known.
They're really not very complicated.
The art of leadership is only complicated to theorists.
It's not complicated to practical men.
There are only a few really, a very few simple rules and precepts that build the makeup
of character that are necessary to be better than a satisfactory leader.
And I'm sure that each one of you has passed that qualification or else you wouldn't be here.
I would like to go further into this particular field and point out to you that I believe
we have become an exact and in exact in the use of terminology because I was reading last
night a memorandum which said that we teach leadership at the command and general staff college
from the level of the division commander up.
I take issue with that statement for the reason that leadership is a peculiar art or a technique
in itself and a division commander is not basically a leader.
He is a commander.
And I'm going to point out to you that you should be adjusting your thinking to a different
point of view.
I will talk to you briefly about what I call commander ship and general ship which are quite
different from being a leader.
Pretty interesting, right?
Yeah.
I this one got my attention man.
I'm reading this.
I'm like, ooh wait a second, where are we going?
Where is he going?
If you will go to the title of the people who you are in charge of in military echelons
starting at the bottom, you'll first come to a squad leader, then a platoon leader.
And every other title after that has the word commander.
So for those of you who don't know, you got a fire team leader, you got a squad leader,
you got a platoon leader, and then you get to a company commander or even a task unit commander.
Why was that done?
There are no company leaders.
There are no battalion leaders.
There are only company battalion brigade commanders.
And then you get to division commanding generals, which is a further progression.
I'd like to point out to you that I hope you all will graduate with an appreciation of
the transition that is necessary to go from leadership to commander ship.
I hope you don't think this old man now is involved in semantics because I hope I'm not.
It's really an important thing and a lot of people have never bridged it.
They're still exercising leadership as company commanders or even as they get higher.
And by doing so, they're bypassing or poorly using their subordinate commanders and staffs.
Just to take a break.
So I've talked about this many times.
There are people that do a great platoon commander.
Task unit commander is not quite there.
Seal team commander, they're not good.
We've worked with businesses where you had this CEO, founder.
Like this one we see a lot.
Founder slash CEO.
Hey, does an amazing job forming that business building that business?
All of a sudden it's time to really grow.
They can't make the transition.
They don't make the transition.
And they have to bring in a new person to be the CEO, a person with these other attributes.
So this is something that's, all I was thinking about is, oh, okay.
I remember the CEO that brought the company, brought this particular company through this
particular situation and then got to that level and they had to move them into some
different role and they had to bring in somebody that had this next, this next level of
leadership characteristics.
Continuing on, you came here to learn commander ship or general ship and that involves
the proper organization and utilization of subordinate commanders and staffs to establish
what you want done with your command.
And the technique is much different than the technique of getting in front of a platoon
and saying follow me, which is leadership.
But when you're in a different position with reference to your soldiers, then you become
more or less a director and the technique of a director ship is far different than the
technique of saying follow me.
I'm so glad he gave a, he broke this down.
I will give you an illustration.
Who's you have a horse at a point a that you want to move to point b?
You take hold of the halter shank and he follows you down the road, you're the leader.
So there you go.
Hey, that's what you are.
You take that bridal and you, lead this thing down the road, you're the leader.
But if you get on and ride him, you use different techniques, you use different aids,
you use your legs and other things that I learned in the ancient days when we had writing
at West Point to accomplish your purpose.
And I would say that might be termed commander ship.
You're then the commander of the horse.
You're not as leader, but the purpose is the same to move him from a to b.
Now if you're affluent enough to own a sulky and I had to look up sulky, I had no idea
of sulky as a carriage.
It can be a one person carriage, but it's two wheels.
If you're affluent enough to own a sulky and drive him with the reins and with a whip
in your hand, then that's general ship.
And I bring that up because it isn't too far fetched in the problem that I would like
to bring with you.
I will give you a historical example of a fellow who was tremendous leader during the
civil war, perhaps one of the greatest leaders of the civil war.
And I use that term in the sense that I have used it up to now.
So he's talking about a leader.
One of the greatest leaders, but he's saying in the term that I'm using a great leader in
the civil war was Hood, who commanded the Texas Brigade.
He was a most fantastic troop leader and sometimes if you'd like to look into a further,
there's a very good book entitled The Galen Hood, Hood was a leader of the old school.
And front of his men with a saber in his hand, that's how he handled his brigade and it
was an effective organization.
It was inevitable that a man with such capabilities would be promoted.
He went up rapidly throughout the war.
He ranked next to Lee at the end of the war, but when the war was over, he had lost command.
It was a sorry ending to a man who had never mastered the transition from leadership to
commander ship to general ship.
And you move into the field of commander ship as against the field of leadership, you
go to the techniques or the arc of how you use your subordinate commanders to get the
most out of them, the art and the technique of how you organize and use your staff in order
to enable you to carry out the job of directing, organizing and handling operations.
So I'm just going to, I'm going to wrap through this whole thing because there's so much
to talk about.
And I'm going to let me pause.
This is what I find interesting.
And he's going to come back to it, but I'll give you a foreshadowing.
He's going to come back to it.
I think that as he looks back at his career, I got to remember this guy joined when
he was when he was a kid and he was in a world war one and think about how things changed
by his own admission in between the world war one and world.
So when he was a world war one and post world war one, he was in his mind this leader,
right?
That was going to lead from the front.
That was going to make things happen.
Because the nature of war became more dispersed.
All of a sudden you had to have a little something that we called decentralized command.
He can't be in front of his unit the whole time.
And that would be the same.
And I think as he became more mature and as he got older, hey look, when you took a, well,
it's kind of hard.
Well, I talk about this with life.
People say like, hey, I wish I would have done X, Y and Z when I was the assistant
platoon commander.
Lave could write a book about the things he wish it would have changed when he was
a assistant platoon commander for sure.
He was fresh out of the fleet, you know, naval academy fleet and now it's on, he's
an, he's an assiopton.
Right?
Do you think that if he went back and did that right now, do you think he would do things
a little bit differently?
Absolutely.
We all would.
Yeah.
We all would do that.
And so here we have a guy that went through the entire rank structure of the army, the
entire thing.
And as he got older and got better and got more experienced, I would think he'd say, this
is what I should have done when I was a platoon commander, but I didn't.
And here's what I would do differently.
But maybe because the wars were different and it was more centralized and it wasn't dispersed,
everyone was together.
So there's a, there's a, I think what I see is him is him saying listen, it was, it's
a different thing, whereas I look at it now and say wait a second, it might have been a
different thing for you.
But if you could go back knowing what you learned eventually, you might say, hey, I actually
would have led differently.
Now tell you right now, even in a platoon, even in a freaking squad, even in a fire team.
The techniques that he's going to talk about, what's better, if you're in charge of a
platoon, what's better, grab in the grabbing the reins and pulling them down, or is it better
to guide them and let them run?
Yeah.
The answer is so obvious.
But he digs in a little bit, chain responsibility.
And also you must realize, as you go up in various echelons of organization of the army,
from the squad on up, you become increasingly removed from the individual soldiers and
your influence on the individual soldier is no longer carried by an eyeball to eyeball approach.
It is carried on through the echelons of your command down to him and you become increasingly
just an image to him, which you develop in several ways, but you get to the field of proper
staff organization and staff relationship because that is very important, part of command
or ship and general ship.
What is that saying?
What it's saying is when you're in a leadership position, as you go up in ranks, you
right, you don't have eyeball to eyeball at any all the time.
Guess who you do have eyeball to eyeball with?
You're a subordinate leader.
And your subordinate leaders have to nurture those close personal relationships with their
troops, so that that influence that you have as the commander is felt all the way down
through the front lines.
Back to the book.
In your recent military review, there's an article on faulty staff relationships.
I hope it will cause you to give a little thought to that problem because it is important
one.
You come to one of the most important parts of commander ship and leadership, and that is establishing
a chain of responsibility.
So that every man in your organization knows who he works for and who works for him.
That's cool.
I get that.
Wait, that's called a chain of command.
That is basic.
How many organizations have you been in where that wasn't known?
I've been in several.
I had no idea who I worked for or who out who or who made out my efficiency report.
After all, and this is one of those things where I get a little cringy.
As my kids, as my daughters would say, after all, there's one basic rule in the army that
you can't violate.
And I over a period of 44 years have tried to violate many of them.
I've been successful in a few, but this one I have never been successful in.
And that is you work and devote your loyalty to the man who makes out your efficiency
report and the man who endorses it.
If you don't do that, you're never going to be a general.
So to me, this is wrong.
To me, relationships are stronger than the chain of command.
And luckily he's going to counter this.
He's going to counter this.
Of course.
The establishing a chain of responsibility is just as important.
And look, this is proven out by hack worth who built these incredible relationships and
that's how we ran things.
Establishing a chain of responsibilities just as important in your staff as it is in your
command.
If you don't have that, your headquarters mills around and creates what I call command and
staff inertia.
That is a state of frustration and lack of purpose that exists in many military staffs.
Okay.
People got to know what people got to know with the chain of command.
For sure.
Then of course, it comes down to the art of command or ship or general ship as to how you
issue your directives or how you project your desires and will down through the chain of
command.
Oh, desire, I read that wrong.
As to how you issue your directives or how you project your desires and will down through
the chain of command, it comes out in directives and so forth, which is an art within itself.
And which I am sorry to say, we sometimes don't do very well.
We could do a lot better when we're doing that in the field.
I've worked at times for a commander for whom I felt I wasn't doing a good job because
the truth of the matter was I didn't know what he wanted me to accomplish.
Okay.
Second law of combat, simple, simple clear and concise.
If I don't know what you want me to do, there's no way I can accomplish it.
And by the way, who's fault is that?
It's my fault.
If I don't know what my boss wants me to accomplish, what do I do?
I raise my hand and ask my boss, what do you want me to accomplish?
What's the mission here?
Get done.
What's the end date?
What's your intent?
Next section, improving your unit.
Now we get to the point of making progress as a commander.
I can't conceive of anybody who takes over a company, a batallion, a brigade or division,
a corps, a field army who doesn't sit down and say to himself, how I impress upon my
superiors, the men who make out my efficiency report that I am a good commander.
Once again, you know, you get a little bit of that.
I'm looking to get promoted, which I don't like.
How do I do that?
I've seen it done every way that you can think of in my career, but I would suggest to
you that the best way to do it in the military organization is through a little exercise
of what I call, is through the exercise of what I call little pluses of making a little
progress in every field every day.
Over a period of time, if you do that, your organization will tighten up.
Your organization will become good and you'll gradually come up with the understanding and
the reputation of really being a good commander.
You will also not create turbulence, which detracts from the effectiveness of your unit.
So I like this idea, little things, get a little bit better every day.
But then he goes into this without that thing when he talks about turbulence, he goes
into it.
I've seen people walk into an organization and immediately start to make headlines.
I would like to point out to you a great truth in the military that he who lives by headlines
is destroyed by headlines.
Remember that if you start seeking headlines and creating images of yourself as a Superman,
pretty soon somebody will find a hole in your armor and when he does he will certainly
give it to you.
That follows from the rule about the monkey who climbs up a pole.
The high re-gits, the more of his rear he shows the people who are below him and that
often goes for a person who up the chain of command in the echelons of the army.
So good, that's what I totally agree with that.
Now he gets into this section.
It's called channels of suggestion.
I hope that I have impressed upon you that there is a technique and commander ship and
general ship, techniques that are different from leadership, although the characteristics
of the individual as to honesty and sincerity and all those other things are just as applicable.
So honesty is important.
Since you have to master the transition as you go up, there is a little depth of different
technique being a company commander, the not a being a batagon commander.
You have a bigger staff, you have more senior subordinate commanders as you go up and that
of course increases.
We talk about chain of command.
I have conscientiously tried throughout my career to live and conduct my job in such
a way that I didn't exercise control of my organization through channels of command.
I exercised it through channels of suggestion.
So instead of using the chain of command, he's saying exactly what we say instead of saying,
look, I'm in charge, I'm the highest rank guy, you're going to do what I say.
He's saying don't do that.
As much as I can throughout my career, I've exercised command through channels of suggestion.
And I have a note here that says, ha, relationships.
I think it is very important that I only use the channels of command when I wanted to
discipline somebody.
And I didn't have to do that very often.
I figured that if I could, he's just putting himself on report.
I figured that if I couldn't run an organization by getting things done by suggestion
that I'd failed as a commander, I commanded the troops of 12 nations as a core commander
in Korea.
I didn't have any strong chain of command between me and the allied troops.
If I put out something that I want to done that violated their national ideas, they didn't
pay very much attention to it.
In that case, what are you going to do next?
Well, guess what?
You don't have to be a foreign army for that to make sense.
That happens in a freaking poll tune.
That happens in a fire team.
If I come up with dumb ideas that don't make any sense, that are what does he say?
That violates their ideas.
And they don't want to do it.
Oh, you can force them to do it.
But what does that get you?
I was down at the infantry school and commented on this not very long ago.
And one captain got up and said, General, I've listened to very carefully to your channel
of suggestion approach.
And I'm familiar with it.
I served in your command in Europe.
And I think you have to be a very powerful, suggestor to make it work.
Maybe that's true, he says.
And the note I have here is, here's a good way to suggest.
Here's the most powerful way to suggest.
Listen to your other, when this whole time I'm thinking, is it his suggestions or other
people's suggestions?
I was thinking he was talking the power of suggestions.
Hey, Jocca, what do you think we should do here?
Here's the power of suggestion.
Hey, Dave, what do you suggest?
Yes.
Because I'm going to listen to it.
And we're probably going to do it.
I mean, unless it's just a travesty of a plan, we're going to do it.
So definitely some things to think about in there.
And as I look at this, look, guess what?
What's that saying?
We stand on the shoulders of giants.
This guy had to do his whole military.
We get to lead.
We get to take what he puts out.
This power of suggestion, which hack worth then took even further.
And now we got to take that and go even deeper.
Not even deeper, but further we got to expand that idea of decentralized command.
And of listening to what people have to say.
And the fact that hack worth freaking loved his draftes because his draftes would call
bullshit on him.
He says that in the book.
My draftes, they would call bullshit if they didn't agree with something.
So I loved them for it.
Not I hated them for it.
Not shut up and do what I told you to do.
Thank you.
Thank you for your suggestion that my idea is stupid.
What do you suggest?
He continues to kind of dismantle some of these earlier statements.
This section is called followership.
I want to get from there now to another subject and I'll end up and then I'll end up
my presentation.
That is the topic that fits right along with leadership.
What I call followership.
Everybody is a leader or a commander of any echelon is also a follower.
You're never, you never get in the hierarchy of the army to a point where you're not
a follower.
The chief of staff of army is a follower.
He follows the desires of the directors of the president, secretary of the army, secretary
defense, the joint chiefs of staff and so forth.
Even the president of the United States is a follower in that he follows public opinion.
What you are today, each one of you is the result of 35 to 40 years of following where
by you have taken into your makeup ideas, instruction, and concepts and through a process
of discernment, acceptance and elimination, you have stored away in your makeup certain
characteristics, ideas and procedures that end you have discarded others.
In that process of sifting through the good from the poor or what you consider the good
from the poor, you have created as of today your present makeup and character, which is
you as an individual.
If you have attained good characteristics and a storm of good ideas, learning and concepts
that you can use effectively in the future, you have been a good follower.
If you haven't, you'll not be a good leader nor a good commander.
It follows from that that you must through this process of discernment and storing away,
create in yourself a balanced man whereby you can handle concurrently all the different parts
of the job.
You don't concentrate on wanting to forget the other, such as maintenance.
You don't concentrate on marksmanship and forget something else.
The best organizations in the American Army are the organizations that are good or better
in everything.
They may not make any headlines.
They may not be superior in any one thing, but they are our best organizations.
These are the type of organizations that we want to develop in the Army.
I've tried to, so that idea of making headlines is a great point.
This idea here reminds me of the gray man, they used to say going through buds, they
would say if you were the gray man, like if you don't want to be the number one swimmer.
Because in people who be watching you, you want to kind of like fit in.
I have tried to lead your thinking through the transition from leadership to commander
ship and general ship and to point out to you where in follow-up ship is very important
in this process of your development.
This next section is progressing up the pyramid of life.
So all of a sudden this just turns into like a life gig.
And when I was saying that the end of this section that we're going to cover gets, gets
really important, this is sort of where I'm starting.
It has been truthfully said that at the end when one looks back on his life, he should
measure his success by the number of wrongs up the ladder of life he has climbed since
he started and not by the particular wrong on which he has finished.
The basic concept of our government under the Constitution is that all men are created equal.
All men are created equal.
This means not that all men are created equal for they are far from it.
It only means that all men should have equal opportunities and rights under our laws.
This concept is a great step in the progress of man.
When any group of men such as army officers, lawyers, doctors, engineers, scientists, clerks
or accountants start out in any corporation or any other organization they fit into a pyramid,
which is brought at the base but becomes smaller and smaller as they approach its peak,
assuming that those people in each category start with approximately equal backgrounds.
There is a selection process which starts as soon as they rise in the pyramid of life,
as soon as they tend to rise in the pyramid of life.
We're talking about this hierarchy, which obviously this might bring some thoughts of Jordan
Peterson and hierarchy of competence and that's kind of what we're talking about here.
Assuming that, and by the way, he's making, he says, assuming that people start in the
same approximate backgrounds.
That's a big freaking assumption.
But don't worry, he's going to get back on that.
But that's a huge assumption.
It's probably an assumption that they didn't recognize as much back in 1950.
Also assuming that the selection of those who rise in the pyramid of life is based upon
ability, experience, and the need for special capabilities and leadership, how does one
prepare himself for being chosen to advance in competition with his associates and colleagues?
So he's talking about how do you go up that pyramid?
How do you ascend the dominance hierarchy?
Everybody who is a leader, director, or commander at any echelon of an organization is also
a follower.
He never gets to a point where he is not.
And he goes to he repeats himself here.
The Chief of Staff of the Army is a follower.
He follows the desires of the director of the president, the secretary of the Army, even
the president is the United States of the United States of the following that he follows
public opinion.
What each one of us is today is the result of years of following.
whereby we have taken into our make-up knowledge, ideas, instruction, and concepts.
Through a process of discernment, acceptance, and elimination, we have stored away in our
personal ability, certain characteristics, ideas, and procedures, and we have discarded others
as nothing worthy.
So he repeats that section right there.
He's making it, he's trying to re-emphasize that point.
And the process of sifting the good from the poor, or what we consider the good from
the poor, we have created as of today, our president make-up and a character which is
ours as individuals.
If we have attained good, correct characteristics, and a store-room of good ideas, learning
techniques and concepts that we can use effectively in the future, we have been good followers.
And it was nice to compare this to you know, you and I covered the Marine Corps document
learning.
And really when he's talking about following, what he's really talking about is learning.
Hey, just said, you got to, if you can take that and apply it, then you've been a good
follower.
Yeah, yeah.
We have a good basis for being successful leaders and in all probability we will advance.
A good follower is able to react quickly and effectively to an emergency or a crisis
hence he has the potential to become a fine military commander.
This process must be continuous during our active careers if we are to continue to grow
in judgment and balance.
Again, this is the mind's me that Marine Corps like you are learning.
That's what we're doing.
And I have a note here that says that this section that I'm about to read is the own
of his whole thing starts to come together for me.
Some call this experience, but it is more than that.
It is the constant and critically sound evaluation of experience that causes us to progress
in stature and move up the pyramid of life.
So it's not just about experience.
Experience by itself barely even helps you.
What you have to do is you have to take that experience and you have to constant and
critically evaluate it.
And that's what will make you progress.
So you can just go through life and experience all kinds of crazy things and leadership
challenges.
But if you never critically assess what you did, what you learned, how you performed, you
were not talking during the break.
You said something like, I can't believe that I just didn't get issued this book as a second
lieutenant when I graduated from the basic school or whatever.
And we had a quick conversation about the fact that it's one thing to pick up a book and
read it.
It's another thing to have a actual conversation and have context and have thoughts around
the book.
And I think that's probably one of the reasons why people listen to the podcast is because
not because I'm sitting here doing an audio book.
Right?
I mean, this isn't an audio book of this book.
This is my thoughts, your thoughts and general Clarks thoughts.
And sometimes we're right.
Sometimes we're wrong, sometimes we agree, sometimes we disagree.
But what we are doing when we do that is we're constantly critically evaluating the experience
that he had.
And then we're constantly, we just, you and I just did a freaking 30 minute evaluation
of the fact that we inspected our admins are not.
And lessons were learned.
So that's what we're doing.
This idea of learning all the time.
And the more important man, the idea of what look we talk about all the time at echelon
front, you got to do a debrief.
You got to do a debrief.
You have to do a debrief and you get done with the operation.
When are lose, you got to do a debrief?
That's what you have to do.
Then you got to enter early in life as some members of society fall.
And this is where we just started getting into this broad conversation.
And this is sort of the last section here.
Early in life, some members of society fall into limited categories due to handicaps of
opportunities, health and physical and mental ability.
These people start life with ceilings over them that few are able to pierce.
So there's certain situations that you can be born into that are going to be challenging
and they're really hard to get through.
And he gets that.
And then he goes on to say, but how about those whose opportunities, education and
apparent ability, seem to start off on common equal footing as they begin to move up the
pyramid of life?
Each one eventually reaches his own peak and levels off at various distances from the
top.
Very few have an apparent ceiling over them at the start, but they develop ceilings at
various levels as they go along.
So now we're talking about this pyramid.
We got this pyramid that we're trying to climb up.
And some people are, they have a legitimate ceiling in life.
Whatever they were born, they've got some situation that is a ceiling that they're
going to reach.
And it can be very hard to break through that.
But now we're talking about, hey, look, now you've got people that there's no real ceiling.
He's on equal footing.
And then he says, each one eventually reaches his own peak and levels off at various
distances from the top.
Very few have an apparent ceiling over them at the start, but they develop ceilings at
various levels as they go along.
What causes this leveling off process on the part of an individual?
What factors tend to cause this ceiling to form over him?
And then he's got this list.
He's got this list of factors that cause you to reach your limitation, that cause people
to reach their limitations.
Here they are.
Wrong decisions.
Wasted opportunities.
The duration of attitude and enthusiasm, excesses lack of self-control, lack of honesty
of purpose, tendency toward lowered standards, poor ethics, loss of self-respect, loss
of motivation and ambition, lack of ability to express himself orally or in writing, poor associations,
wrong scale of values, failure in carrying out responsibility, lack of loyalty, upper down
unfortunate family situations, deterioration of physical condition, bad habits, poor financial
management, disregard of rules, procrastination, failure to keep up with progress in his
field.
So what's amazing about that list?
Let's see.
I don't know how many there are.
There's maybe one lack of ability to express himself orally in writing.
So that is, can you get better at that?
Yes, you can.
But there are some people that don't have the same capability.
Look, wrong decisions.
Who's that on?
You.
Wasted opportunities.
Detiration of attitude and enthusiasm.
You.
Excesses and lack of self-control.
Lack of honesty and lack of purpose.
You.
Tendency toward lowered standards.
Poor ethics.
You.
Loss of motivation and ambition.
Lack of ability to express himself orally in writing.
Okay, we can improve it, but you may have a limited there.
Poor associations.
You.
Wrong scale of values.
Failure in carrying out responsibility.
You.
Lack of loyalty up or down.
Unfortunately, family situations.
That's something we don't always have control over.
Detiration of physical condition.
That's something that we don't always have control over.
It's something that we also do have control over, depending on what that deterioration is being
caused by.
If you have some kind of a disease that you can't control, look, that's one of those things.
But oftentimes, there's things that we can do to make sure we maintain our physical
condition.
Bad habits.
That's you.
Poor financial management.
This regard to the rules.
That's you.
Your procrastination, that's you, failure to keep up with progress in his field, that is you.
So that is, as a lot of stuff, too, that we can take ownership of.
Now this whole section closes out with this following statement here.
Poor, poor fellowship.
And I think that's supposed to say, follow our ship.
The follow our ship is a great contributor to ceiling formation.
And again, the way he's using follow our ship to me is he's talking about, you know,
the ability to learn, the ability to take ownership of what's happening.
Once a ceiling is formed or start to form, form is difficult to break through, a few
do break through despite handicaps.
However, there are those who would try to dispel these ceilings by social laws and values,
meaning they want to blame other people.
To be sure, they are partially successful on the lower reaches of the pyramid of life,
but not as they reach the apex of the pyramid.
They only warp the shape of the pyramid at certain levels.
The Bible says that many are called, but few are chosen.
It is ever thus as we tried to progress up the pyramid or ladder of life.
Yeah.
So with that, probably a good place to stop this one, that's just such an important way
to look at things.
And we always talk about extreme ownership from a leadership perspective and leading
organizations and leading teams, but extreme ownership is about you, it's about your life,
it's about what you're doing.
And we have a lot more ownership over what we do and where we end up and where we end
up in this ladder, in this pyramid, then some people would have you believe.
That's almost sort of seems like a haphazard list, like almost they're not related
to those things he was running through.
And then the common thread is he basically just captured almost all those things are things
that we impose upon ourselves, which in some sense is like it's kind of crazy because
as I dissect what he's saying and like, well, how much control do I have over that?
And for almost all of them, it's 100%.
Not like, hey, there are components and I think you actually did a good job because, yeah,
you know what, life happens and you say this on the podcast, other times life happens.
And sometimes those things in life that happen most certainly limit what we can do.
It's the fact that those things do happen.
And even inside of the thread of all those is when he said, wasted opportunities.
I mean, you want to talk about someone who's taken stock of his life that's actually
kind of achieved inside this pyramid that he's talking about.
He's at the top of this pyramid.
Man, that is a humbling series of things that he's calculated really about himself.
Number one, wrong decision.
Number two, waste opportunities.
Yeah, I mean, there's some startling things inside there and properly, probably for
me what he did.
Yes, again, I struggled this section a lot more than the last one because there's part of like,
where is he going when this stuff?
Why is he even saying that?
And when he kind of brings a full back, the thing that he did is this is a guy that
contemplated the things that he has done and why he did them and dissected the mistakes that
he's made.
I mean, if there's a mistake that I made throughout my career was not spending enough time
dissecting why I did the things that I did.
And that is a, that is a self-imposed limitation that if you don't think about why the
meaning, if you don't learn from the things that you did and why you did them,
that is a self-imposed limitation.
And God, that list is, that is a humbling list of things to think about.
Yeah, it's a, it's a heavy hitter.
Dude, it's a heavy hitter.
Wrong decisions. Number one.
But even then, like, there's, there's an ego thing of like, well, yeah, I mean, you know,
people make people make wrong. I mean, you don't have a decision is right?
Well, pull that back a little bit.
Who's that on?
The mistakes that you made. Who's fault is that?
It's not not yours that I am at a bad call over here.
Um, so yeah, I mean, I was struggling at the beginning of each of those parts of like,
where how is he going to pull this back? And it reminds me of something that you and
Lave reminded each other about was when we were talking to Tom Fife.
And I'm sitting here listening to him and he says something and I'm like, man, that didn't
seem like you were, why did you say that, man? That's not what you're going to say.
And then he pulls that back full circle of like how clean he made that at the end when in the
beginning, I'm thinking, where are we going here?
Yeah, that was like a four minute evolution where I was we were, we were, I don't know,
probably a third of the way into a really well, it's going to be a long podcast and I think,
oh, well, I guess his leadership principles don't really mess up with mine. And that's real
bummer because he's saying, hey, you tell people what to do and they just do it because they've
been trained that way. And that's okay, you know, they just, they're just so beating because they're
in the army and for three minutes, I sat there and thought, dang, I guess this isn't. And then
after three minutes he goes, but these guys would never do what you told him to do just because
you told him to do it. Yeah, you they need to understand why they were telling us like, yes, totally.
Thankfully, thankfully. And I think that's the kind of the transition that you see,
you know, someone like General Clark making towards the end of his careers,
look, hey, this is General ship, you want to lead by suggest new one after barc orders of people.
If they're not taking initiative, making things happen, you're doing something wrong.
That applies. I'm telling you that applies to a platoon, it applies to a squad, it applies to a
business, it applies to a big business and it applies to a nine person business. It's all the same.
And how, how comforting is it? How, how good is it to think, oh, I have control over all these things.
That is actually completely awesome. All these problems in my life. All these things that they're
all self-imposed, which means I actually have control over all of them. Yeah, I don't know, once again,
that's the cool premise of extreme ownership. And it's cool when you apply it to your organization.
Could you say, hey, this is, this is on me. I'm going to make these changes for our company,
for our team, so we do better. But man, the way it hits you is a human. When you look at all these
problems that you have and you go, oh, this problem is assailing me. This problem is attacking me.
This problem is going to destroy me. You say, oh, wait, you know what? I'm going to take ownership
of those problems. I'm going to get those things sorted out. And look, are there some outliers? Sure.
There are. There are. Can you get, can you get a horrible disease? Can things that are
completely beyond your control hit you? Yes, they can. Of course, of course. And, and, you know,
those, then it turns into, okay, how are you going to respond to those things that are out beyond your control?
But so many things that we face are just straight on us, wrong decisions,
waste an opportunity, lack of self respect, very seldom does the ceiling come from others.
Very seldom does the ceiling come from other most of the time. The vast majority of the time,
the limitations in our life are exactly that they are our limitations that we imposed on ourselves.
So I think that's a good connection that he makes, but even though this book is about leading others,
we cannot lead others if we can't lead ourselves. And if we can't do the right things ourselves,
then we have no one else to blame. But us.
All right, good place, good place to stop for now. And I think speaking of
bad habits, right, we can have some bad habits. Well, we also want to have some good habits.
We want to speak in a lack of self control. We want to have self control. Speaking of bad decisions,
we want to make good decisions. Let's think of some ways to get us on the right path for all these things.
We had Jaco Fiel, which is a bunch of supplements, joint warfare,
krill oil, discipline, discipline, go, vitamin D, Cold War, Mulk, which is protein disguised as
dessert, a bunch of awesome things for you to put in your body so your performance will improve.
You'll become a better human being. Those are good decisions to make.
Jaco, wait, T. All the stuff that we make is available at originmain.com. It's available at the
Vitamin Shop. It's available at WaWa. We also make a bunch of Jiu Jitsu gear.
Jiu Jitsu gear made in America.
G's rash cards go to go to originmain.com if you want to get a G or a rash card. And by the way,
you can't go out to the store in your G, even though you might want to. You can't, you got to wear
jeans. Go and check out the clothes we have, the jeans, the boots. There are shorts coming online.
There are shorts coming online. There are shorts coming online. We're getting there. We,
okay, all that stuff is available. Originmain.com, main America, main America by American Hands. Go
check out, go check out the origin YouTube channel or Facebook channel and see the people that
are building this stuff, see the community that's making this stuff, see America being reborn.
Informington main. Go check that out. Now, shorts. Yes, we do have some shorts at JacoStore.com.
We have shorts, which I'm wearing right now. We have rash cards. We have t-shirts. We have hats,
beanies, hoodies, whatever you need. We got some women's gear on there. We got Warrior Kid soap.
So you can stay clean. That's all at JacoStore.com. Hey, any one of these stores,
any one of these products, they all help. They all help support the podcast. So if you want to get
the game coming, get the game with us. Subscribe to the podcast. We got a bunch of them. We got Jaco
unraveling. We have the debrief, which is still under the umbrella of Jaco podcast. I'm not
off. I'm going to move it out at some point. Maybe, maybe not. I don't know. Let me know what you think. Grounded
podcast unraveling with with Darrell Cooper. Warrior Kid podcast got that one. YouTube channel.
If you want to check out what Dave Burke looks like, you want to see us laughing at each other,
making fun of each other, shaking, shaking our heads and being surprised and shocked and trying to
figure things out. Go check out the YouTube channel. And also you can see echo trolls who sometimes
shows up to work. He's not here tonight. But he sometimes makes videos that he enhances with music
or sound or explosions. So check that out. Psychological warfare, little album with tracks,
available on MP3 platforms, flip side canvas to color the Myers company, making cool stuff to hang
on your walls, bunch of books about face by hack worth. I wrote the forward. What an honor that was.
The code, the evaluation, the protocols, leadership, strategy, and tactics field, field mental.
Way the warrior kid one, two and three. And now way the warrior kid for order it. So I know how many
to make. It's going to be Christmas time. And we don't want Santa to get short changed on having
the way the warrior kid for field manual. So order that now. So Santa knows how many to make.
Said has got to get down to business, Mikey, the dragons get that one for the younger kids.
This one goes freedom, field mental. New version out more words than it. I wrote them
extreme ownership and the dichotomy leadership. The OG books. Also we have Escalam front, which are
leadership consultancy. If you want to learn about leadership or you want to help you want us to
help get your leadership, get your company's leadership aligned and all singing off the same page
and crushing. Go to Escalam front.com. We have EF online for leadership and struck.
Because leadership is not going to look. You can't go to one read one book and think,
oh cool, I know how to lead now. Doesn't happen. Can't listen one podcast and cool. I know
how to lead now. Doesn't happen. EF online revamped. We got a forum. We got Q&A as live Q&A's.
You can talk to, you want to ask me a question, go to EF online.com. Go to EF online.com.
I will be on a zoom call to talk to you. EF online.com. We got the master coming up. There's only one
this year. Dallas, Texas December 3rd and 4th. Go to extremeownership.com. We've sold out everyone.
We've ever done. This one's going to be socially distanced. We're already doing live events. We know
how to operate this safely. Go to extremeownership.com for details. If you want to come to that,
we have EF Overwatch. Listen, podcast 244 with Mike Sirelli. We take it's an executive leadership
for your company. You need leaders in your company that understand these principles. Go to EFOverWatch.com.
If you want to help out service members, both active and retired, you want to help out their families.
You want to help out gold star families around the world and check out Mark Lee's mom.
Mark Lee's mom. She has a charity organization. If you want to donate or you want to get involved
to help America's mighty warriors, they go to americasmidewariors.org.
You can donate or you can get involved there. If you're just a glutton for punishment,
then you just are begging for more of my
heuristic herrings or maybe you just want some more of Dave's vehement vocals. Then you can find
us on the in-a-web's on Twitter, on Instagram, which echo likes to call the gram.
Anon Facebook. Dave is at David R. Burke, and I am at
Jaco Willink and thanks. Once again to General Bruce Clark and to Colonel David Hackworth
for your service to America and for continuing to take care of the troops through the lessons
you passed on. Thanks to the military personnel out there right now, hold the line.
Thank you for doing what you do every day to keep us safe and to the police and law enforcement
firefighters and paramedics and EMT's dispatchers correctional officers board patrol secret
service and all the other first responders. Thank you for holding the line here at home
and to everyone else out there. Remember these lessons from General Clark. Remember that the
ceiling you can't break through. Remember that there's a pretty good chance that you built it.
You made the wrong decisions wasted opportunities to tear your
nation of attitude lowering standards, poor ethics, poor associations, procrastination,
and bad habits that list goes on and on and on and the list is on you. The list is on me.
We control so much of our fate. We control so much of our destiny.
There may be those little fractions of things that we don't truly control.
Maybe that's what causes us to just give up on the rest. But I'm telling you don't do that.
Don't give up on it, own it, own it, all and break through that ceiling.
And become what you want to become and become who you are supposed to become and you do that
by going out there every day and getting after it.
So until next time, this is Dave and Joko out.